realign goals, questions, and content (#389)
carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro: _episodes/16-parallel.md

---
title: "Running a parallel job"
teaching: 30
exercises: 60
questions:
- "How do we execute a task in parallel?"
- "What benefits arise from parallel execution?"
- "What are the limits of gains from execution in parallel?"
objectives:
- "Construct a program that can execute in parallel."
- "Prepare a job submission script for the parallel executable."

> - "Launch jobs with increasing degrees of parallel execution."
> - "Record and summarize the timing and accuracy of the results."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Launch jobs with parallel execution."
- "Record and summarize the timing and accuracy of jobs."
- "Describe the relationship between job parallelism and performance."
```

I think these are three separate skills, and should be captured in three different objectives: you are teaching learners how to 1. run a  job in parallel, 2. how to access and parse information about the performance of a job, and 3. how to translate that into an understanding of the different ways that parallel execution can effect job performance.

keypoints:
- "Parallel programming allows applications to take advantage of
  parallel hardware; serial code will not 'just work.'"
- "Distributed memory parallelism is a common case, using the Message
  Passing Interface (MPI)."
- "The queuing system facilitates executing parallel tasks."
- "Performance improvements from parallel execution do not scale linearly."
---

We now have the tools we need to run a multi-processor job. This is a very
important aspect of HPC systems, as parallelism is one of the primary tools
we have to improve the performance of computational tasks.

Our example implements a stochastic algorithm for estimating the value of

> π, the ratio of the circumference to the diameter of a circle.

Reviewer 2: Aren't these rendered characters a potential source of editor pain?

Author: Yes, but after switching them all to HTML codes, the raw Markdown became much more difficult to understand! My suggestion for those with uncooperative editors -- and I know this sounds snarky, I mean it with tenderness & affection -- is to upgrade your terminal and/or editor, or use the Web interface.
